# docker-drf-quick-starter

This starter employs Django, Django Rest Framework, and PostgreSQL to construct a REST API with OpenAPI documentation, integrated with Docker, Docker Compose, and GitHub Actions.

## Features

- Django web application framework
- Postgresql database
- Github Actions. For automatic testing , linting and Deployment. In order to connect the github with docker hub, we need to add Docker Hub's `account name` and `access token` into github repository secrets.
- Test Driven Development. Write Test -> Run Test(fail) -> add Feature -> Run Test(Passes). base on `unittest` library and Django REST Framework test features.
- Docker.
- Fix database race condition by customing Django management command `wait_for_db`. [Django Docs management command](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/testing/tools/#topics-testing-management-commands)

## Included Packages and Tools

- `Docker` and Docker Hub account for pulling images for Python and Postgresql. [Anonymous users vs authorized users rate limits](https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/download-rate-limit/)
- `Github Actions` for automatic linting and testing.(Need to set up `DOCKERHUB_USER` and `DOCKERHUB_TOKEN` in github secrets in order to pull images from Dock hub)
- `Django` and `Django REST Framework`
- `Postgresql`
- `Psycopg2`, the postgresql database adaptor for python, requirs additional dependencies: `build-base`, `postgresql-dev`, `musl-dev`, `postgresql-client`
- `flake8` for linting.
- `Pillow` for image uploading
- `drf-spectacular`for OPENAPI docs

## Linting and Testing Commands

```shell
# app is the name of service.
docker-compose run --rm app sh -c "flake8"   #linting
docker-compose run --rm app sh -c "python manage.py test"   #tesing
```

## Requirements

- Django>=4.0.1,<4.1
- djangorestframework>=3.13.1,<3.14
- psycopg2>=2.9.3,<2.10
- drf-spectacular>=0.22.1,<0.23
- Pillow>=9.1.0,<9.2
- uwsgi>=2.0.20,<2.1
- flake8>=4.0.1,<4.1

## Django Project structure

```
📦
├─ .dockerignore
├─ .env.sample
├─ .github
│  └─ workflows
│     └─ checks.yml.sample
├─ Dockerfile
├─ README.md
├─ docker-compose.yml
├─ requirements.dev.txt
├─ requirements.txt
├─ scripts
│  └─ run.sh
└─ src
   ├─ .flake8
   ├─ app
   │  ├─ __init__.py
   │  ├─ asgi.py
   │  ├─ settings.py
   │  ├─ urls.py
   │  └─ wsgi.py
   ├─ core
   │  ├─ __init__.py
   │  ├─ admin.py
   │  ├─ apps.py
   │  ├─ management
   │  │  ├─ __init__.py
   │  │  └─ commands
   │  │     ├─ __init__.py
   │  │     └─ wait_for_db.py
   │  ├─ migrations
   │  │  └─ __init__.py
   │  ├─ models.py
   │  └─ tests
   │     ├─ __init__.py
   │     └─ test_commands.py
   └─ manage.py
```

©generated by [Project Tree Generator](https://woochanleee.github.io/project-tree-generator)

A newly initiating Django project with custom Django management command `wait_for_db` implemented and tested in `core` folder. The `core` will manage all the models used in this projects and custom admin site functionality.

## Recommendations

- Test Driven Development. Create `tests` folders in each subredictory with every file starting file name with `test_` in order to manage all test functions.
